Data storage JavaScript SDK (#472)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: stream-sources/rudderstack-sdk-integration-guides/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/data-storage-cookies.mdx

---
title: "Data Storage in Cookies"
description: >-
  Detailed technical documentation on persistent user data stored in cookies or local storage by the RudderStack’s JavaScript SDK.
---

# Data Storage in Cookies

> RudderStack's JavaScript SDK stores persistent user data in cookies by default. In case the cookies are not supported, local storage is considered for the same. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the RudderStack JavaScript SDK stores persistent user data in the cookies. If the cookies are not supported, local storage is used instead. 
```

> All the cookies are stored in the top-level domain by default. It helps to identify the users visiting from websites that are hosted under a sub-domain. For example, if you include the RudderStack JavaScript SDK in both `admin.samplewebsite.com` and `app.samplewebsite.com`, the SDK will store the cookie in `samplewebsite.com`. However, you can configure where you want to store the cookie by using the `setCookieDomain` parameter in the `load` API options as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the cookies are stored in the top-level domain by default. It helps you to identify the users visiting from websites hosted under a particular sub-domain. For example, if you include the JavaScript SDK in both `admin.samplewebsite.com` and `app.samplewebsite.com`, the SDK will store the cookie in `samplewebsite.com`. However, you can configure where you want to store the cookie by using the `setCookieDomain` parameter in the `load` API options as shown:
```

```javascript
rudderanalytics.load(<WRITE_KEY>, <DATA_PLANE_URL>, {
  setCookieDomain: "samplewebsite.com",
});
```

## Cookies

> The list of cookies used by JavaScript SDK to store persistent user data is mentioned below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of cookies used by the JavaScript SDK to store persistent user data is mentioned below:
```

> | Name             | Description       | Example    | Clearing Mechanism using SDK |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name             | Description       | Example    | Clearing mechanism using the SDK |
```

| :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |:---------------------------------- |

> |  `rl_user_id`         |Stores the user ID set via the `identify` API method. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless cleared from the storage. | `4578`, `USER_001` | `rudderanalytics.reset()`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `rl_user_id`         |Stores the user ID set via the `identify` API. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless cleared from the storage. | `4578`, `USER_001` | `rudderanalytics.reset()`  |
```

> |  `rl_trait`       | Stores the user traits object set via the `identify` API method. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless overridden. |  <pre>{<br>  email: "alex@example.com",<br>  accountType: "pro",<br>  country: "US",<br>  someObj: {<br>    key1: val1,<br>    key2: val2,<br>  }<br> }</pre>         |`rudderanalytics.reset()` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  `rl_trait`       | Stores the user traits object set via the `identify` API method. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless overridden. |  <pre>{<br>  email: "alex@example.com",<br>  accountType: "pro",<br>  country: "US",<br>  someObj: {<br>    key1: val1,<br>    key2: val2,<br>  }<br>}</pre>         |`rudderanalytics.reset()` |
```

> |  `rl_trait`       | Stores the user traits object set via the `identify` API method. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless cleared from the storage. |  <pre>{<br>  email: "alex@example.com",<br>  accountType: "pro",<br>  country: "US",<br>  someObj: {<br>    key1: val1,<br>    key2: val2,<br>  }<br>}</pre>         |`rudderanalytics.reset()` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `rl_trait`       | Stores the user traits object set via the `identify` API. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless cleared from the storage. |  <pre>{<br>  email: "alex@example.com",<br>  accountType: "pro",<br>  country: "US",<br>  someObj: {<br>    key1: val1,<br>    key2: val2,<br>  }<br>}</pre>         |`rudderanalytics.reset()` |
```

> |  `rl_anonymous_id`          | Stores the anonymous ID. By default, it would be the auto-generated unique ID by SDK for each visitor unless overridden via `setAnonymousId` API method. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless overridden. | `5bfe258f-bd2f-49cf-bddd-8b844f74ab4b`, `customAnonId`  | `rudderanalytics.reset(true)` |

Reviewer 2: For these 3 entries, update the last statement as below:

"All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data unless cleared from the storage."

|  `rl_group_id`          | Stores the user group ID set via the `group` API method.        | `GRP_3`, `98` | `rudderanalytics.reset()` |

> |  `rl_group_trait`    | Stores the user group traits object set via the `group` API method.   |    <pre>{<br>  location: "New Orleans",<br>  nationality: "US",<br>  someObj: {<br>    key1: val1,<br>    key2: val2,<br>  }<br> }</pre>                      |  `rudderanalytics.reset()` |

Reviewer 2: For these 2 items, add the following statement to the description:

"All the subsequent group event payloads will contain this data unless cleared from the storage."

> | `rl_page_init_referrer`        | Stores the initial referrer of the page when a user visits a site for the first time. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data.    | https://www.google.com/ | Cannot be cleared using SDK |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `rl_page_init_referrer`        | Stores the initial referrer of the page when a user visits a site for the first time. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data.    | `https://www.google.com/` | Cannot be cleared using SDK |
```

> | `rl_page_init_referring_domain`      | Stores the initial referring domain of the page when a user visits a site for the first time. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data.  |  google.com |Cannot be cleared using SDK |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `rl_page_init_referring_domain`      | Stores the initial referring domain of the page when a user visits a site for the first time. All the subsequent event payloads will contain this data.  |  `google.com` | Cannot be cleared using SDK. |
```

<div class="infoBlock">

The cookie values are encrypted and their length is directly proportional to the values provided to the SDK. Also, all the cookie names are prefixed with <code class="inline-code">rl_</code> and the values are prefixed with <code class="inline-code">RudderEncrypt:</code>. For example, <code class="inline-code">rl_user_id —> RudderEncrypt:U2FsdGVkX1+UKmiooYoGmKdNws7sgmWgGfHe</code>.
</div>

## Local storage cookies

> The local storage cookies are used by the JavaScript SDK to keep track of the events being sent to the RudderStack backend. These can be listed as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The local storage cookies are used by the JavaScript SDK to keep track of the events sent to the RudderStack backend. They are listed in the table below:
```

| Name             | Description       | Example    |
| :------------- |:---------- | :----------- | 
|  `ack`     | Timer for other browser tabs to claim control of the retry queue     | `1639734070124` |

> |  `reclaimStart`/`reclaimEnd`      |Determines if a tab takes over the queue from another tab  | `2dc2aee6-2836-4273-be69-79c90c04ddec`  |

Reviewer 2: These variables together contribute to the purpose.
```suggestion
|  `reclaimStart` and `reclaimEnd`      |Determines if a tab takes over the queue from another tab  | `2dc2aee6-2836-4273-be69-79c90c04ddec`  |
```

> |  `ack`     | Timer for other browser tabs to claim control of the retry queue     | `1639734070124` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `ack`     | Timer for other browser tabs to claim control of the retry queue.     | `1639734070124` |
```

> |  `inProgress`    | Keeps track of the events in progress | <pre>{<br>  "d89d7fb5-945e-4378-bda5-492e4b596fb4": {<br>   "item": {<br>    "url": "https://rudderstack-dataplane.rudderstack.com/v1/track",<br>    "headers": {<br>     "Content-Type": "application/json",<br>      ...<br>    },<br>    "message": { <br>     ...<br>    }<br>    "attemptNumber": 1,<br>    "time": 1639734792773,<br>    "id": "a4d89d7f-b594-4eb3-b8bd-a5492e4b596f"<br>   }<br>  }<br>}<br></pre> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `inProgress`    | Keeps track of the events in progress. | <pre>{<br>  "d89d7fb5-945e-4378-bda5-492e4b596fb4": {<br>   "item": {<br>    "url": "https://rudderstack-dataplane.rudderstack.com/v1/track",<br>    "headers": {<br>     "Content-Type": "application/json",<br>      ...<br>    },<br>    "message": { <br>     ...<br>    }<br>    "attemptNumber": 1,<br>    "time": 1639734792773,<br>    "id": "a4d89d7f-b594-4eb3-b8bd-a5492e4b596f"<br>   }<br>  }<br>}<br></pre> |
```

> |  `queue`    | Keeps track of the events that are in queue to be processed   | <pre>[<br>  {<br>   "item": {<br>    "url": "https://rudderstack-dataplane.rudderstack.com/v1/track",<br>     "headers": {<br>     "Content-Type": "application/json",<br>    ...<br> },<br> "message": { <br>   ...<br> }<br>  "attemptNumber": 0,<br>  "time": 1639734792773,<br>  "id": "a4d89d7f-b594-4eb3-b8bd-a5492e4b596f"<br> }<br>]<br></pre> |

Reviewer 2: The examples are ill-formatted.

> |  `queue`    | Keeps track of the events that are in queue to be processed   | <pre>[<br>  {<br>   "item": {<br>    "url": "https://rudderstack-dataplane.rudderstack.com/v1/track",<br>    "headers": {<br>     "Content-Type": "application/json",<br>      ...<br>    },<br>    "message": { <br>     ...<br>    }<br>    "attemptNumber": 0,<br>    "time": 1639734792773,<br>    "id": "a4d89d7f-b594-4eb3-b8bd-a5492e4b596f"<br>   }<br>  }<br>]<br></pre> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `queue`    | Keeps track of the events that are in queue to be processed.   | <pre>[<br>  {<br>   "item": {<br>    "url": "https://rudderstack-dataplane.rudderstack.com/v1/track",<br>    "headers": {<br>     "Content-Type": "application/json",<br>      ...<br>    },<br>    "message": { <br>     ...<br>    }<br>    "attemptNumber": 0,<br>    "time": 1639734792773,<br>    "id": "a4d89d7f-b594-4eb3-b8bd-a5492e4b596f"<br>   }<br>  }<br>]<br></pre> |
```
